There's a wide range of vulnerabilities
in systems that need to be found.
Assessing those weaknesses
is a time-consuming process.
To position themselves
ahead of threats and
make the most of their limited resources,
companies start by understanding
the environment surrounding
their operations.
An important part of this is getting
a sense of their attack surface.
An attack surface is all the potential
vulnerabilities that a threat actor
could exploit.
Analyzing the attack surface is usually
the first thing security teams do.
For example, imagine being part of
a security team of an old castle.
Your team would need to decide how
to allocate resources to defenses.
Giant walls, stone towers, and
wooden gates are a few common security
controls of these structures.
While these are all designed to protect
the assets inside from attacks,
they don't exactly account for
all the possibilities.
What if the castle were near the ocean?
If it were, these defenses would be
vulnerable to long range attacks by ship.
A proper understanding of the attack
surface would mean your security team
equipped the castle with catapults that
could deal with these kinds of threats.
Modern organizations need to concern
themselves with both a physical and
digital attack surface.
The physical attack surface is made
up of people and their devices.
This surface can be attacked
from both inside and
outside the organization,
which makes it unique.
For example,
let's consider an unattended laptop
in a public space, like a coffee shop.
The person responsible for
it walked away while sensitive company
information was visible on the screen.
This information is vulnerable
to external threats,
like a business competitor, who can easily
record the information and exploit it.
An internal threat of this attack surface,
on the other hand,
is often angry employees.
These employees might share
an organization's private information on
purpose.
In general, the physical attack surface
should be filled with obstacles that
deter attacks from happening.
We call this process security hardening.
Security hardening is the process
of strengthening a system to
reduce its vulnerabilities and
attack surface.
In other words, hardening is the act of
minimizing the attack surface
by limiting its points of entry.
We do this a lot in security because
the smaller the attack surface,
the easier it is to protect.
In fact, some security controls
that we've explored previously,
like organization policies and
access controls, are common ways that
organizations harden their
physical attack surface.
The digital attack surface
is a bit tougher to harden.
The digital attack surface includes
everything that's beyond our
organization's firewall.
In other words, it includes anything
that connects to an organization online.
In the past, organizations stored
their data in a single location.
This mainly consisted of servers
that were managed on-site.
Accessing the information stored on
those servers required connecting to
the network the workplace managed.
These days, information is accessed outside
of an organization's network because it's
stored in the cloud.
Information can be accessed
from anywhere in the world.
A person can be in one part of the world,
fly to another place, and
continue working. All while outside
of their organization's network.
Cloud computing has essentially
expanded the digital attack surface.
Quicker access to information is
something we all benefit from, but
it comes with a cost.
Organizations of all sizes are under
more pressure to defend against threats
coming from different entry points.
When we get together next time, we'll
explore why this is such a challenge.